High ping Technologies I'm learning in
2025 um disclaimer before we start these
are just my experiences and the circle
that I talk to the people that I'm
interacting with that lead to me
thinking that these are hyping
Technologies in 2025 it may or may not
be that if you are someone who's
currently stuck in a job doing you know
let's say standard development you're
doing espet PHP man python whatever um
if you feel like you've hit a ceiling if
if you feel like you're not learning
anything new every day these are the
technologies that I spending my time on
um you can choose to at least explore
them from the sides dive deeper into it
based on you know how much time do you
have but if I had the full year free
let's say for example I would spend my
time learning these Technologies for one
to two months and the ones that I really
liked the ones in which I could clearly
see a market growing or a company that I
would could get a job in um I would
spend most of my time learning that
technology the reason to learn these
Technologies is fairly simple um you can
either get a extremely high paying you
know 100K remote offer if you know a
technology if you either know the
breadth of technology that means once
you join you're handling everything um
that includes front end backend devops
monitoring things go down production
issues cicd U that is one way you can
get there in the second path it's easier
to convince a company it's easier for
you to show proof of work it's easier
for you to negotiate um which is why if
you've been given a choice of learning
let's say something like d Jango versus
learning something like core deep Tech
video processing um it's a good idea to
go for the second one if you can clearly
see a company or a market that's growing
very quickly so we'll talk about some of
these markets that you can think of that
are slightly more than just basic web
development or app development um that
you may choose to spend your time on
where do I figure out these Technologies
or companies U it's mostly my circle
talking to friends who are in SF
following funding announcements
following what kind of companies are
currently getting funded in YC and then
figuring out what's their Tech stack and
what an engineer there might be working
on on a day-to-day basis with that a
very small disclaimer this might not be
an extremely beginner friendly video If
you haven't coded at all until this
point might be a good idea to pay your
debts do the standard DSA Dev grind for
a few months
before you come back to this video and
you know try to Target one of these
Technologies let's get right into it
number one is going to be agents um it's
the hot word in town right now if you
talk to anyone in SF half of them are
building agent startups um what is an
agent um basically an llm is the
simplest you know 10x outcome that's
come out of ml right now which is give
it some text it responds back with some
text that is great uh but that's not
where we want to reach um where do we
want to reach that's AI U artificial
general intelligence where you don't
have to do anything we as humans can
simply sit on the side and it'll keep on
working and you know make decisions that
us humans have to take right now agents
are somewhere in the middle U they do
require some level of human intervention
but at the same time they're trying to
achieve a few things that you would
expect from an AGI their LMS sort of
talking to themselves um think of them
as um a bunch of LM M calls that happen
one after the other and there are some
level of decision making that you know
is happening through the llm think of an
agent has a bunch of llm calls that
happen one after the other that help it
make some decisions um and this agent is
sort of connected to real world
applications things like your Gmail
WhatsApp U so that it can send you
messages notifications um it can call a
phone number it can sign into a website
so on and so forth um I'll give a few
examples of what these companies look
like and you know what's expected once
you join um for example um if you ever
want to build a system that let's say U
talks to your customers and tries to
upsell them on something and at some
point U needs human intervention to
create a coupon code and you know tries
to negotiate with a user an end user of
yours U to sell something specific U
that's a good example of a workflow that
you can create um using a platform like
this um when you create an agent there
are 10 different things that could go
right could go wrong um and hence if you
look at the YC list of companies in this
patch and the last one there are a lot
of companies surrounding agents um how
do you make agents safe how do you give
agents access to money how do you give
agents access to your authentication
your Gmail U how do you make agents
secure how do you make agents talk to U
humans in the middle these are sort of
very auxiliary companies that are
getting built out which are sort of
signs this might be big in the future or
this is something that VCS are betting
on to be big in the future why is that
the case U I think as I said until we
reach AGI we'll sort of have to
compromise with agents um there are
Middle Ground between pure llm calls and
something like a which God knows how far
it is again what is an agent a good
example of this is a voice agent um if
you ever receive a call from dominoes to
do a reservation or a booking that's a
good example of you know an agent that
you're talking to it's not a human on
the other side um it's an agent or a
voice agent that can talk to you
understand what you're saying and talk
to a database figure out what times are
currently available for that restaurant
and you know book the restaurant for you
these are real world use cases of
systems like these um fairly hot market
right now I think chat Bots and voice
agents are the initial set of things
that you can think of doing but now
agents are going into a very weird
direction of um you know building very
weird use cases we'll talk about some of
them um in the next point but agent as a
jargon Frameworks that I used to create
agents agent marketplaces and products
buil built around agents is something I
would spend my time on it's nothing too
complicated it's a layer on top of llms
uh which is why as a full stack engineer
it's not too hard for you to dive into
one of these with that we'll move to the
next one which is a very specific use
case of call them agents or you know
General ml/ llms um which is browser
automation since um llms have been a
thing I found a few very specific
companies that solve problems that
require a lot of browser automation I'll
take a few examples um induced AI is a
company that initially got funded for
creating uh an AI that can control a
browser a similar example is I just
found one which was browser use U it's
open source I think it's part of this or
the last YC batch um that's one set of
companies where you need to remotely
control a browser you need to give um an
AI access to a browser and let it
navigate to various websites talk to an
llm and understand what the user wants
from the AI a good example is I can talk
to the AI and tell it to book um a
flight for me from Delhi to mumbay it's
very futuristic U and you know that's
why a lot of these companies that raised
to build this are now pivoting to
something else um but another good
example of browser automation is
something I talked about in my recent
life which is a meeting bot that can
join um a Google meet or a zoom meeting
and record the the whole thing
transcribe the whole thing figure out
the action items and create a a nice
dock out of these and email it to all
the
participants this and you know many
other use cases would involve you
controlling a browser remotely so this
very Niche skill U of getting really
good at controlling browsers via
selenium or playright or you know any
other tool that you might have used to
start browsers U is a very Niche skill
that if you can Master U then you can
solve a paino for one of these companies
even though this is not too hard to do
um I think as you scale this if you have
a not a million but let's say a few
thousand browser instances running on
the cloud that's a hard problem to scale
U so how would you do that how would you
start browsers what if a browser crashes
how do you restarted how do you make
sure there is some level of reliability
um is one thing that would be important
to these companies so I already know
this so I'm not really spending my time
on this uh but if I was you and if I
hadn't spent time here remote browser
controll tools U and in the worst case
uh this will help you write good
integration tests u in the best case you
know you might be able to use this
knowledge in a specific AI company with
that we'll move to the third point and I
do apologize I think a lot of these are
very AI related but unfortunately most
of the funding is currently in this
market so it's just easier to find
companies who over raised recently and
are currently you know hiring
aggressively for a problem um so the
problem most probably is going to be you
know in some form of fashion related to
AI the next one is making well just
understanding the code base of vs code
honestly um vs code is a fairly large
code base I think it has some more than
100K comits um and a lot of folks are
coming out the most successful one being
cursor um I think cursor has proven a
very decent business model from what I
remember there at 50 mil AR have raised
at a $2.5 billion valuation and not a
lot of people around the world
understand the code base of vs code
completely and to build a company like
uh cursor eventually they'll probably
spin this out and you know build the
editor from scratch or hire a bunch of
vs code people work with Microsoft
that's my guess right now um so knowing
how VSS code is written understanding
how you can create extensions let's say
tabs uh you know building a visual UI
inside Visual Studio code um would be a
decent skill to know um reason being
there's just a lot of folks coming out a
wind surface another one that came out
by the folks at codium they're also
valid at a billion dollars um so believe
it or not um either get really good at
vs code and understanding its code base
or um a few other markets are um all of
these coding extensions sort of require
them to work with not just vs code but
let's say t or neovim if you are really
good at a specific text editor or making
extensions in text editors U you can be
the go-to guy or you the goto company
for for Port in these AI extensions from
vs Cod to neovim let's say um that might
be another Vector I would take in these
companies and the next part here is
indexing code bases as well I think the
reason that cursor works so well is not
just that have a they have a fancier UI
compared to vs code but because they
understand your codebase really well U
that involves a bunch of you know AI
plus non- a challenges how are you um
indexing the users code base how are you
making sure with a limited context
window um you can send the right
information to llms how can you make
sure you're sending it faster how you're
making sure the response that's coming
back is passed correctly so on and so
forth um this knowledge can be used in a
product not just like uh codium or U
cursor you can also use this knowledge
to build something like Devin or dosu
bot if you have heard of it which was
one of the initial you know GitHub PR
Bots that would automatically try to
solve your issues it's similar to Deon
but it doesn't have a fancy UI um it was
just a a direct PR integration Bard that
you would integrate with your codebase
and it would start to either solve PRS
or comment on PRS at the very least
point the developers in the right
directions so on and so forth so this
specific Market basically you know
developer productivity Market making
developers faster replacing developers
is now a very growing Market there are
more tools to help developers code than
you know developers that are coding
that's of
course not true um but at this point it
feels um one of the very big competing
metrics amongst openi and you know
Google is who's built a better coder um
so you'll see this sort of happening for
a while for that reason um there'll be a
lot of funding in this market though one
of these companies even though you know
I'm sure they're all plate to some point
they're all saturate and eventually
they'll be one or two winners but until
then there'll be a lot of funding so
getting into one of these companies one
you can learn a lot to you'll be in the
center of the action you know building
for developers building to replace
developers and of course uh even if this
doesn't work out uh you'll have enough
knowledge about talking to llms paring
the response which can be used in other
use cases as well so that' be the third
one um understanding the core knowledge
that is needed to build either a vs code
extension or a vs code folk or a Devon
like application that you know
automatically creates PRS in your uh
code base and tries to solve it
understand his comments on it so on and
so forth with that we'll move to the
next one um next one is finally non AI
related U this one I've just kept as a
side section which is cyber security and
devops one sort of need U that the
company would always have would be to
make sure someone is maintaining the
infrastructure um and of course cyber
security something that wouldn't be a
Thing If humans weren't dumb um I humans
leave out things human humans leave out
security vulnerabilities which bug
bounty hunters find and then you know
get paid and something similar will
happen with AI even if AI is writing
code there's a high probability it
leaves out some level of vulnerabilities
so these are two job roles that you will
always need a person for irrespective of
you know what kind of AI comes even I
think if AI comes um you will need
someone to hold accountable SL scream
and yell at SL wake up in the middle of
the night um if your things go down so
learning devops um and it's really hard
to find devops Engineers were really
good um and by devop I don't mean you
know you're able to deploy an
application on a VM I mean you
understand how you can scale
applications infrastructure code moving
to various clouds U making sure you're
uh you know maintaining Cloud costs
negotiating with Cloud providers
developer productivity cicd tools U
testing integration so on and so forth
so all of these uh you will need someone
to own um not a lot of people know this
really well like compared to the number
of web developers the number of people
who know devop Val is really less so you
know that is one market if you want to
stay away from the crowd or if you're
extremely U saturated in your job right
now um then you know you should look at
but this involves a number one you know
some initial investment so keep that in
mind voice standard you need Cloud
access you know to play with a few
machines spend some money there you know
don't think twice before running some
experiments on various Cloud providers
and number two um I think these fields
may you really learn something well if
you're working in a company that hits
scale U otherwise you just deploy it to
a v VM I've talked to a lot of startups
in India Jo the engineers say we just
have a VM we deployed the database there
the database crashed and then you know
we lost data for a few hours U to you
wouldn't really learn or you know get
good at devops if you're working in such
a company um the way to get good at
devops is to work at a company that's
really hit scale now and has you know
cost optimizations to do even if you
save them 10% of the bill that's a
really big number for example one of our
students got into a quick Commerce
company and he shared that their their
monthly AWS bill was somewhere around a
mill uh per month so if you can save 10%
you're saving you know 80 lakh rupes to
the company um which frankly isn't too
hard to do in Cloud even through
negotiations you can save this much
money um and if not negotiating you know
you you can you can find ways to squeeze
out profits of course a company that's
in quick Commerce right now doesn't need
to squeeze any profits U but in the long
run you know as a devops engine these
are places you can provide value you'll
only be able to provide that value if
youve joined the company that's hit
scale U though unfortunately there's no
very easy path to learn you know devops
unless you join a company um that's not
true for let's say you know mobile
development or web development or even
backends so I would suggest you know you
start to own infrastructure of a company
and you know that's how you start to
learn devops for cyber security um there
are two parts you either go through a
certification there are various you know
commonly available certifications that
people do but a lot of cyber SEC people
that I know are just naturally gifted um
they've been in hacking websites since
they were young they've always been
interested in reverse engineering
binaries or you know going through
standard web attacks and attacking a
bunch of websites and slowly you know
moving from a black hat to again this
one isn't a very clear path either but I
can tell you this this one's lucrative
number one it pays really well to be one
of the you know higher paid bug bounty
hunters if you get into the right
circles if you're doing well on Buck
Crow or hacker 1 um you'll get invited
to private U inspections of these
companies and and when you do that you
you can make I mean the best ones make
like 2 three Mill a year um that said um
I also got my recent job through U
finding a fairly severe vulnerability in
you know one of these AI platforms so
that also sort of told me companies
whenever they come that also was a
telling sign for me okay um even without
giving an interview just because you
know I was able to figure my way around
some very standard commonly available uh
vulnerabilities I was able to get a job
it's really hard to sort of replace uh
you'll always need people to keep
inspecting um websites and making sure
they're safe so these are two again
decent attack vectors even though cyber
security is a little uh dilly dally by
which I mean you know um it's is a
little unstable because a company
doesn't really need you on a retainer
they probably will hire you make you do
an audit and then you know won't need
you later to make sure you're
comfortable with that lifestyle um but
for devops game pretty blue ocean over
there I think U companies would always
need someone on call U especially if you
join a big company there's like so much
you can do it's always an interesting
team to join with that we'll move to the
next one this one is this one's again
non AI uh browser based XYZ uh so
there's canva there's nid or you know a
bunch of other company let's see if I
have another one there's Google
spreadsheets um a lot of these
applications
were desktop applications before uh
Premier Pro is still a fairly used um
desktop application
spreadsheets were something people used
to have locally but eventually all of
this moved uh to the cloud and to
websites there are many benefits of you
know having these tools as websites U
biggest one being you know collaboration
everyone's the mle size is really small
you don't have to download a full binary
you can just open a website and hit the
ground running um but the problem is
building these applications is really
hard your browser isn't super powerful
there's a signal JavaScript thread
running that's processing everything so
if you want to do video processing if
you you want to do video editing inside
the browser if you want to store a very
big spreadsheet that has a million rows
um you have to optimize it somehow and
the the way you optimize It Is by using
web workers and you know not just
restricting yourself to the single
thread that the browser provides you um
so this specific niche of front ends
that will be very hard for an AI to
replicate is another Vector for you to
learn it's basically going one step
ahead of uh standard websites that you
can build um these are the challenging
bits in in a front end I think well
there are other challenging bits is it's
hard to design front ends I think that
will always be a useful skill but more
than that um I think doing
computationally hard things in the
browser is something not a lot of people
know very well another good example here
is if you ever want to do a video
background removal like Google meet does
U that's also really hard to do in the
browser because again a single thread is
doing 30 FPS uh video processing then it
will not be able to do other things so
all of that happens usually in a web
worker so what are web workers how do
they run how do they make sure okay you
know your browser thread is free to do
other things um while the heavy lifting
is offloaded um over there that's a nice
problem to solve if you're trying to
build an end2end video editor that's web
based um then understanding what exactly
gets stored in the browser how exactly
the video finally gets rendered probably
on a server are interesting you know
things to know
because yeah as I said these are not
simple websites so there's something
extra on top of you know the standard
designing a website and building a
website and State Management that you
have to do with that we'll move to the
well there are two more points after
this um which are Super intriguing but
also super hard unless you're going for
a Masters or a PhD um these are image
generation and and score machine
learning as you could have guessed U I
think a few years ago it was like really
hard to do to code as well like standard
websites uh but over time you know you
get people talk about it people get
smart and then eventually you everyone
knows how to build a website today I
think that'll be true for U ml AI image
generation L LMS whatever you want to
learn um and you're very early right now
um and we're also very early right now
um only you know probably a handful of
people know llms really well so if I
really had the time honestly if I had
the time energy and money to move to the
US for a few months I'd probably go for
a masters in these um but since I don't
have that um I just have to figure out
ad hoc ways which is either going to be
talking to my batchmates or currently
doing phds or other way to you know
learn these Technologies um I've written
a few of these down the first one being
uh image generation I think video
Generation image generation is doing
fairly well now and there will be use
cases that come out other than you know
virtual only fan models um we've been
using it fairly well in you know a bunch
of our videos thumbnails the are like
very small use cases honestly there's a
lot that can be done you know stock
footages can be replaced U yeah there
are many use cases that maybe aren't
fairly obvious right now um but at the
bottom of it is going to be M Generation
Um so how does does you know image
generation actually happen how does face
swapping happen um what are diffusion
models what was the first diffusion
model what is stable diffusion how is it
different from let's say ideogram or the
other one that I forgot the name um all
of these have papers thankfully that you
can read through not that it's going to
be easy that's why I said it's easier to
go for a masters where you can find a
community that's you know doing this
really well there's not a lot of
publicly available knowledge as to or
you know broken down tutorials as to how
this is Works under the hood um I'm not
talking about like building something on
top of these that you can always do I'm
actually talking about understanding
how diffusion models work or you know
how images do get generated um if you
give a specific prompt um that's one and
the other one is of course um it's core
machine learning uh neural networks but
eventually building up to something like
Transformers and llms um that's the
second uh very obvious you know thing to
learn which will stay for a while will
be a valuable skill will get you a job
so on and so forth because you already
know I mean there's a lot of funding
there highest Roi companies
highest VC multiples are coming to you
know companies like openi which probably
makes sense because if build something
new it's very hard to build there's a
very strong Mo only three four companies
will eventually be able to do it really
well and hence it makes sense to learn
these U this probably for me would
involve you know going to the standard
andng U grind for a few months um then
there's this video that's really good
that explains the Transformer
architecture and then of course there's
the car Party video that will get you
started on how to build a very basic llm
at that point I would you know start to
look out for either talking to a
professor or a junior roles which are
honestly hard to find in ml that'll
probably be the way to get into you know
ml uh without going for a Masters or a
PhD U but this is Uncharted Territory I
don't think a lot of people have you
know taken that path directly right now
but this honestly feels like the most
rewarding path in the long run because
this is what is really disrupting you
know whatever that's standard full stack
that would probably be the most
lucrative path in the long run um I'm
still deciding I mean there are a lot of
points that I've talked about here each
has its own you know put out a few
points each has its own merits and you
know dem merits um but let's create a
study group maybe I don't know let me
think about this U where you know we
pick a few of these every month and try
to study them um honestly if I if I look
at the list the most interesting ones to
me are image and video Generation Um
that's probably number one then it's
going to be agents
purely because
um one the hot thing in the town and two
U if there like real use cases that can
be buil so there'll be a lot of
companies that make a lot of money here
um then it'll be uh developer tools vs
code auto complete GitHub PR so on and
so forth then it be browser automation
um because it's just very easy um then
it'll be core ml probably uh browser BAS
b u XYZ web workers and then well tough
choice between this and devops and cyber
security yeah this would be my list um
in terms of you know top priority to the
lowest U and maybe in the comments I'll
do seven comments on each one of these
titles just up vote on which one you're
learning um or you know what's your top
pick to learn next year and then based
on that we can create the study group
and go from there U the study group
would most mostly be you know silent
learning every week I don't know it's
very hard people like lose motivation
fairly quickly so it'll probably start
off very strong and then eventually die
out um so for that reason we we'll see
how we structure it um but let's see
what where your core interest lies and
we go from there all right cool that's
all I had for this one I will see you
guys in the next one bye-bye